hi this is Prussia talker see if you can
answer this question which most PhD
economists could not you want a free
ticket to see an Eric Clapton concert
which has no resale value Bob Dylan is
performing on the same night and is your
next best alternative activity tickets
to see Dylan cost $40 on any given day
you'd be willing to pay up to $50 to see
Dylan assume there are no other costs of
seeing either performer based on this
information what is the opportunity cost
of seeing Eric Clapton is it zero
dollars $10 $40 or $50 give this problem
a try if you want a hint you can keep
watching the video and I'll explain what
the term opportunity cost means
opportunity cost is an economic term
that refers to the value of the next
best alternative in other words it's
referring to the value of the
opportunity that you didn't take one
example is suppose your team selects one
player with the first overall draft pick
the opportunity cost is the next best
player that the team didn't pick or
imagine you have an extra $10,000 that
you put in a checking account and it
doesn't earn any interest your
opportunity cost would be the forgone
interest of you to put the money in a
savings account or if you put it in some
other investment so what's the
opportunity cost of seeing the Eric
Clapton concert the next best activity
is seeing Bob Dylan so we need to
calculate the value to you of the Bob
Dylan concert now you would be willing
to pay up to $50 to see Dylan
which means you value the Bob Dylan
concert at $50 however you have to pay
$40 for the ticket so your net value to
the Bob Dylan concert would be the $10
above the ticket cost and that's the
opportunity cost if you see Eric Clapton
it would be the $10 of value that you're
not getting if you had gone instead and
bought a ticket for the Bob Dole
in concert so how did PhD economists do
in 2005 there was a survey of about 200
PhDs I provided a link to this paper in
the video description very surprisingly
the correct answer of $10 was actually
the least popular choice the four
choices were picked almost as if there
were chosen by random almost 25% to each
this was a stunning thing that many
economics PhDs didn't have a concept of
what an opportunity cost and actually
caused some stir to say how are we
teaching economics in college did you
figure it out thanks for watching this
video please subscribe to my channel I
make videos on math and game theory you
can catch me on my blog mind your
decisions which you can follow on
Facebook Google+ and patreon you can
catch me on social media at fresh talker
and if you like this video please check
out my books there links in the video
description